PETE LEPAGE: Chrome 63
allows you to import
JavaScript modules dynamically.
My favorite interview
coding question
becomes a piece of cake with
async iterators and generators.
And you can override the
browser's default overflow
scroll behavior with the
CSS overflow scroll behavior
property.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 63.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Importing JavaScript
modules is super handy.
But it's static.
You can't import a module
based on runtime conditions.
Thankfully, that
changes in Chrome 63
with a new dynamic
import syntax.
It allows you to dynamically
load code into modules
and scripts at runtime.
It can be used to lazy
load a script only
when it's needed,
improving the performance
of your applications.
Instead of loading your whole
application when the user first
hits your page, you can
grab only the resources
you need for them to sign in.
Your initial load is
small and screaming fast.
Then, once the user
signs in, load the rest.
And you're good to go.
Writing code that does
any sort of iteration
with async functions
can be ugly.
In fact, it's the core part of
my favorite interview coding
question.
Now with async
generator functions
and the async
iteration protocol,
consumption or implementation
of streaming data sources
become streamlined.
And my coding question
becomes much easier.
Async iterators can be
used in for-of loops
to create your own
custom async iterators
through async
iterator factories.
Scrolling is one of the
most fundamental ways
to interact with a page.
But certain patterns can
be tricky to deal with--
for example, the browser's
pull-to-refresh feature,
where swiping down at the top of
the page causes a hard reload.
In some cases, you might want
to override that behavior
and provide your own experience.
That's what Twitter's
Progressive Web App does.
When you pull down, instead
of reloading the whole page,
it adds any new tweets
to the current view.
Chrome 63 now supports the CSS
over-scroll behavior property,
making it easy to override
the browser's default overflow
scroll behavior.
You can use it to
cancel scroll training,
disable or customize the
pull-to-refresh action,
disable rubber banding
effects on iOS,
add swipe navigations, and more.
The best part--
over-scroll behavior
doesn't have a negative effect
on your page performance.
I love web push notifications.
But I've been really
frustrated by the number
of sites asking for
permission on page load
without any context.
And I'm not alone.
90% of all permission
requests are
ignored or temporarily blocked.
In Chrome 59, we
started to address this
by temporarily
blocking a permission
if the user dismissed
the request three times.
Now in M63, Chrome for Android
will make permission requests
modal dialogs.
Now, remember, this isn't
just for push notifications.
This is for all
permission requests.
If you ask for permission
at the appropriate time
and in context, we found that
users are 2 and 1/2 times
more likely to grant permission.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 63
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
The finally method is now
available on promise instances
and is invoked after a promise
has been fulfilled or rejected.
The new device
memory JavaScript API
helps you understand
performance constraints
by giving you hints about
the total amount of RAM
on a user's device.
You can tailor your experience
at runtime, reducing complexity
on lower end devices,
providing users
with a better experience
and fewer frustrations.
The Intl, dot,
PluralRules API allows
you to build applications
that understand pluralization
of a given language
by indicating
which plural forms for a
given number and language--
and that can help
with ordinal numbers.
All the details, including
links to the docs and specs,
are in the description below.
And be sure to check out
the latest "New in Chrome"
DevTools video to learn
what's new in DevTools.
Then click the Subscribe button.
And you'll get an
email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage.
And as soon as Chrome
64 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]